==Project Reviews==
OWASP recognizes the need for project consumers to quickly ascertain the maturity of a project. Project reviews 
are not mandatory, but they are necessary if a Project Leader wishes to graduate to the next level of maturity 
within the OWASP Projects Infrastructure. Projects can be reviewed when an Incubator Project is ready to 
graduate into the OWASP Lab designation, and project releases can be reviewed if the Project Leader wants the 
quality of their product to be vouched for by OWASP. The goal of a review is to establish a minimal baseline of 
project characteristics and product quality. 

===Project Reviewers===
The Reviewer Pool is made up of a group of individuals that aim to ensure there are qualiﬁed reviewers making 
quality reviews of OWASP Projects.The Reviewer Pool is made up of individuals hand selected by our OWASP 
Technical Project Advisors. These individuals have proven themselves dedicated to executing quality reviews of 
projects. Starting in 2014, members of the Reviewer Pool will be asked to ﬁll in their user proﬁle, which will be 
visible to all OWASP consumers, as a testament to why their reviews have merit and relevance. Members of the 
Reviewer Pool serve a critical role in ensuring the quality of projects, and should gain added recognition in OWASP. 

===Project Reviews===
Project Reviews provide a way to look comprehensively at the overall maturity of a project. Additionally, there is 
signiﬁcant value in allowing projects to solicit general feedback to improve the quality of their projects. There are 
two types of reviews OWASP can provide for Project Leaders: Project Graduation Reviews and Project Feedback 
Reviews. 

'''PROJECT GRADUATION REVIEWS''' 
Project Leaders can submit an application for a project review to assess whether they can graduate to the next 
stage in the OWASP Project Lifecycle. These reviews are conducted in the same way the Feedback Reviews are. 
The only difference is that the project might be able to graduate to the next stage if their project assessment is 
positive. 

'''PROJECT FEEDBACK REVIEWS''' 
Project Leaders can submit an application for a project review to assess the quality of their project, and to get 
general professional feedback from the OWASP Community. Reviews of this type can only be done every six (6) 
months due to the high number of projects in our inventory.

===Project Assessments===
There are several assessments our reviewers use to determine the quality, health, and usability of a project. These 
assessments were developed over a 6 month period of time by our OWASP Technical Project Advisory Team. The 
Technical Project Advisors were recruited as volunteers to help the organization review and update the assessment 
criteria and project graduation process. After months of testing different assessment criteria and processes, the 
advisors determined that projects need to be assessed in three primary areas by both a dedicated reviewer and 
the community at large. Below you will ﬁnd the three assessments our reviewers use to determine the quality, 
health, and usability of a project. When reviewing a project, all of the assessments must be used to determine a 
more accurate and well rounded picture of the current state of the project. 

'''PROJECT HEALTH ASSESSMENT'''
Project health reviews are not mandatory, but they are necessary if a project wants to graduate to the next level of 
maturity. The Project Leader can submit an application for a project health review by submitting a request for 
review using the OWASP contact us form. After the application is received, the project will be assigned two (2) 
reviewers that will help assess the project. 
The review centers around the following core concepts: 

*'''''Project Maintenance:''''' These questions assess whether the Project Leader is keeping his/her project materials 
up-to-date. 
*'''''Quality Expectations:''''' These questions assess whether the project product is of value to users and the 
software security industry. 
*'''''Project Best Practices:''''' These questions are meant to assess whether a project, and its Leader, are following 
OWASP best practices. 

These questions were designed to distill the core characteristics of a healthy OWASP Project, as any concern 
about a project’s quality can be aligned to one of the above questions. This assessment is qualitative in nature; 
therefore, the outcome is subjective to the unit of measurement used, the reviewer. This is why reviewer selection 
for each project is crucial. 

'''PROJECT QUALITY ASSESSMENT''' 
The quality assessment is used to determine how good the product produced by the project is. It is meant to 
determine whether the product is easy to use, and whether users can ﬁnd materials to help them use the product. 
Moreover, this assessment is meant to determine whether the product has continued support and whether the 
Project Leader is maintaining the product and improving upon it regularly. This assessment is conducted by the 
same two (2) reviewers that conduct the Project Health Assessment. Please note, this assessment is qualitative in 
nature, as well. Therefore, the outcome is subjective to the unit of measurement used, the reviewer. 

'''PROJECT USABILITY AND VALUE ASSESSMENT''' 
The Project Usability and Value criteria were created during the 2013 Project Summit as a means of properly 
determining product value to users. The Project Health and Quality Assessments were created before the Summit. 
However, during the Summit, it was determined that there needed to be some way of measuring product value to users that was separate from the assessments the reviewers conducted. Only then could we have a well rounded 
picture of the current state of a project. This is where this particular assessment was developed and why. 
The Project Usability and Value Assessment is a survey aimed at capturing the value a product is providing to its 
users. It is based on the four (4) OpenSAMM business functions and twelve (12) Security Practices. The survey is 
to be sent out to product users, and the assessment will only be complete after at least 10 users ﬁnish the survey. 
After this assessment is complete, the (2) reviewers selected to assess the project will take the results, and use the 
feedback to complete the qualitative project quality and health assessments. The aim is to have quantiﬁable 
metrics that demonstrate usability and value based on actual user input, and a qualitative assessment of health 
and quality based on expert opinion.
