==Appendix==
In this section, you will ﬁnd examples, forms, and extra information relevant to the OWASP Projects infrastructure. 

===OWASP Projects History===

'''JUNE 2011 GPC WORKING SESSION'''
Since the inception of the Global Projects Committee (GPC) at the 2008 OWASP Summit, our goal has been to 
foster an environment where OWASP Projects can grow and mature. As application security awareness rises, the 
knowledge and capabilities provided by OWASP Projects becomes increasingly important. To that end, we must 
balance the history of OWASP Projects as a loosely managed collection of random application security projects 
with the necessity to provide clarity and assurance to a world that has come to depend on many of these OWASP 
Projects. 

Over the last three years, the GPC made great strides towards this goal, but virtual meetings have their limitations, 
and progress slowed signiﬁcantly. Following the initial 2008 Summit, the GPC met in person only once during the 
2009 Mini-Summit. During this session, we met with renewed rigor and were able to take advantage of the 
Summit to outline an overall OWASP Project Lifecycle, along with an ambitious but achievable agenda for the 
remainder of the year. The argument could be made that the productivity of a week at the Summit matched or 
exceeded the productivity of the GPC during the entirety of the previous year. Recognizing the value of in person 
meetings, the GPC requested support for two in person meetings during the 2011 year as part of our overall 2011 
budget, which was approved at the May 2011 Board meeting. 
The GPC held the ﬁrst of these working sessions in the three days leading up to OWASP AppSec EU in Dublin, 
Ireland. The GPC Working Session took place from June 6th – 8th at the Trinity Capitol Hotel, separate and away 
from the ofﬁcial conference venue. This separation was deliberate to minimize distractions and maximize 
productivity of the GPC. During this session, the GPC met for over 30 hours and accomplished a variety of goals 
including: 

# Designated the phases of the OWASP Projects Lifecycle 
# Outlined vision for OWASP Enterprise Edition support 
# Established processes for moving from phase to phase 
# Completed inventory of OWASP Projects and assigned initial phase 
# Targeted projects to pilot OWASP Flagship designation 
# Drafted mapping of Flagship projects to OpenSAMM categories 
# Created of Project Health Evaluation criteria 
# Selected of Projects Hosting Infrastructure provider

Many of these accomplishments were uncompleted goals from the original GPC charter. The working session also 
resulted in several deliverable artifacts which are enclosed with these proceedings. We hope that these 
proceedings demonstrate the value of in person committee working sessions and provide the framework and 
precedent for other committees to pursue their own working sessions. For the full report, please see the GPC Full 
Working Session Proceedings Document. 

'''COMMITTEE DISSOLUTION''' 
In early 2013, the OWASP Board of Directors made the decision to do away with all of our OWASP Committees. 
The committee structure was completely dissolved mid 2013, which meant that the GPC would no longer be ﬁnal 
decision makers on OWASP Projects related matters. 

'''TECHNICAL PROJECT ADVISORS''' 
Faced with the need for experienced technical expertise for project reviews, the OWASP Projects Manager, 
Samantha Groves, recruited six (6) experts from different areas of the software security community. The aim was to 
build a grow of Technical Project Advisors that would help develop the assessment criteria and process OWASP 
would use to determine project health, quality and usability for the purpose of improving overall product quality 
throughout our projects inventory. The assessment criteria and process has been created, and we plan on 
implementing it thoroughly in 2014. 

===List of OWASP Recommended Licenses===
{{Recommended_Licenses}}

===OWASP Code of Ethics 2013===
Each of us is expected to behave according to the principles contained in the following Code of Ethics. Breaches 
of the Code of Ethics may result in the Foundation taking disciplinary action. (Membership Revocation) 
Perform all professional activities and duties in accordance with all applicable laws and the highest ethical 
principles. 
Promote the implementation of and promote compliance with standards, procedures, controls for application 
security. 
Maintain appropriate conﬁdentiality of proprietary or otherwise sensitive information encountered in the course of 
professional activities. 
Discharge professional responsibilities with diligence and honesty. 
To communicate openly and honestly. 
Refrain from any activities which might constitute a conﬂict of interest or otherwise damage the reputation of 
employers, the information security profession, or the Foundation. 
To maintain and afﬁrm our objectivity and independence. 
To reject inappropriate pressure from industry or others. 
Not intentionally injure or impugn the professional reputation of practice of colleagues, clients, or employers. 
Treat everyone with respect and dignity. 
To avoid relationships that impair — or may appear to impair — OWASP's objectivity and independence. 

===OWASP Project Donation Contract===
The OWASP Foundation 

Project Donation License Agreement 

Thank you for your interest in The OWASP Foundation (the "Foundation"). In order to clarify the intellectual property 
license granted with contributions of software from any person or entity (the "Contributor"), the Foundation would 
like to have a Project Donation License Agreement on ﬁle that has been signed by the Contributor, indicating 
agreement to the license terms below. This license is for your protection as a Contributor of software to the 
Foundation and does not change your right to use your own contributions for any other purpose. 
If you have not already done so, please complete this Agreement. 
Please read this document carefully before signing and keep a copy for your records. 

 Full name: ____________________________ 
 E-Mail: _____________________________ 
 Telephone: ___________________________ 
 Country: ____________________________ 

You and the Foundation hereby accept and agree to the following terms and conditions: 

# The donation of your project means that you agree to hand over all past, present and future contributions of source code and documentation to the Foundation, however submitted to the Foundation, excluding any submissions that are conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by You. 
# You hereby grant to the Foundation a non-exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide, no-charge, transferable copyright license to use, execute, prepare derivative works of, and distribute (internally and externally, in object code and, if included in your Contributions, source code form) your Contributions. Except for the rights granted to the Foundation in this paragraph, You reserve all right, title and interest in and to your Contributions. OWASP will always release a free and open version of anything we distribute that includes your Contributions. 
# You may continue to be involved in the donated project, but you may no withdraw your project from the OWASP Foundation once the project donation process has been completed. The project donation process is complete once the Foundation receives as signed version of this form from you. 
# You represent that you are legally entitled to grant the above license. If your employer(s) have rights to intellectual property that you create, you represent that you have received permission to make the Contributions on behalf of that employer, or that your employer has waived such rights for your Contributions to the Foundation. 
# You represent that, except as disclosed in your Project Donation submission(s), each of your Contributions is your original creation. You represent that your Contribution submission(s) include complete details of any license or other restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents and trademarks) associated with any part of your Contribution(s) (including a copy of any applicable license agreement). You agree to notify the Foundation of any facts or circumstances of which you become aware that would make Your representations in this Agreement inaccurate in any respect. 
# You are not expected to provide support for your Contributions, except to the extent you desire to provide support. You may provide support for free, for a fee, or not at all. Your Contributions are provided as-is, with all faults defects and errors, and without warranty of any kind (either express or implied) including, without limitation, any implied warranty of merchantability and ﬁtness for a particular purpose and any warranty of non-infringement. 

Please sign: __________________________________ Date: ________________

===Grant Fund Spending Policy===
OWASP has grown considerably over the past few years, and this means that our project inventory has grown as 
well. We currently manage over 100 open source projects under the OWASP brand umbrella. OWASP prides itself 
on being able to spend resources in the pursuit of potential grant funding opportunities for our projects. However, 
our recent successful grant proposals have added several restrictions in the way we can spend grant awarded 
funds as an organization. 
In order to avoid any problems or mis-understandings, we have developed a few guidelines to provide clear 
expectations of how grant awarded funds are to be managed and spent by all OWASP Projects. 

'''GUIDELINES'''
#All grant applications submitted to a grant awarding body on behalf of an OWASP Project must be submitted to the OWASP Projects Manager for approval before they are submitted to the grant awarding organization. 
#All grant funds awarded to an OWASP Project must be spent in accordance to the project plan and budget submitted to the OWASP Projects Manager, and the grant awarding organization, prior to the award of the funds. 
#All expenses to be made using grant awarded funds must be pre-approved by the OWASP Projects Manager. 
#Awarded grant funds may not be used, re-allocated, or given away to any other initiative or OWASP Project for any reason. 
#It is the Project Leader’s responsibility to make sure he/she is working with the OWASP Projects Manager to manage grant related expenses and spending. 
#It is the Project Leader’s responsibility to make sure they are delivering the product outlined in the grant proposal using the funding made available by the grant awarding body. 
#In the event that the awarded project terminates its activities, the OWASP Projects Manager will notify the sponsor or grant awarding organization, and inform them of the cease of activity. The grant awarding organization can then decide to either take back the funds, or donate them to another project, to the general OWASP Project fund, or to another part of the OWASP organization that accepts sponsorships.

===Project Spending Policy===
Below you will ﬁnd a series of guidelines aimed at assisting OWASP Project Leaders with OWASP Project 
spending related questions. In order to avoid any problems or misunderstandings in the future, we have developed 
these guidelines to provide clear expectations of how OWASP Projects should spend project funds, and what are 
appropriate project expenses. 

'''GUIDELINES'''
#OWASP Project funds are to be spent on project related expenses ONLY. If your project has more than one Project Leader, then all Project Leaders must agree to the expense before the purchase. 
#Before a purchase is made, the Project Leader must make sure that his/her project actually has the funds to cover the purchase. The easiest way to do this is to communicate your purchase needs to the OWASP Projects Manager, or you can look at the running funds list provided by the Foundation. 
#Project expenses exceeding $500 USD must be communicated to the OWASP Projects Manager before the purchase. 
#All project expenses will be managed via a reimbursement process. Once a purchase is made, the purchaser must submit a reimbursement request using our reimbursement form. Note: A receipt is required for the reimbursement process to be successful. 
#Appropriate Project Expenses encompass the following: Graphic Design; Technical Contractor; Web Design; Printing; Software Purchase; Hardware Purchase; Intern Stipends; Team Travel Expenses (for project related work ONLY); Venue Hire (project related work only); Food and Drink (if used to meet with other Project Leaders, contributors, OWASP staff, or an OWASP related function); Project Contractor. Please check with the OWASP Projects Manager before you move forward with a purchase if your expense falls outside of the items listed above. 
#All OWASP Projects are started with the understanding that they will be volunteer run, and they must remain volunteer run. 
#In the event that a project’s Leaders decide they would like to hire a contractor to work on a particular aspect of the project, then the Project Leaders must manage the recruitment and payment on a task/work assignment basis. Contractors must be paid upon satisfactory completion of the task/work assignment. Additionally, the OWASP Projects Manager must be be informed that project funds will be used to hire a contractor for project development. 
#Hiring Project Leaders as Contractors: If a project’s Leaders decide to hire another Leader as a contractor for a project task/work assignment, then the OWASP Projects Manager must be informed before work begins. Leaders must demonstrate to the OWASP PM that they have searched for 3rd party contractors, before the decision was reached to hire the Project Leader(s) as contractors.The contracted Leader(s) will be paid upon satisfactory completion of the work. 
#As of Jan 01, 2014, OWASP will add a disclaimer to the donation page which states that the Foundation reserves the right to reallocate funds to the general Foundation income account. For all money received for projects prior to Jan 1st - OWASP will make best efforts to contact donors in respect to their donor intent before reallocating funds in the instance of inactive projects.

===Project Sponsorship Operational Guidelines===
The set of guidelines below aim to inform project sponsors of what they can expect if they donate funds, or other 
resources, to an OWASP Project. Additionally, they outline what Project Leaders can offer sponsors in exchange 
for donating funds to their OWASP Project. 
In order to avoid any problems or misunderstandings, we have developed these guidelines to provide clear 
expectations of how sponsors and projects are expected to interact when funds are given to a project for product 
development. 

'''GUIDELINES''' 
# Any company or individual can donate funds to a project in exchange for the placement of one sponsorship logo on the OWASP project page and product they have sponsored. 
# There is no limit or minimum amount that a company or individual can give in funds to an OWASP Project. However, the minimum amount required to have a company logo on the OWASP Project wiki page and product is $1000 USD. 
# Sponsors that donate less than $1000 USD will have their company name, and website url added to the project wiki page and product. No logo will be placed for donations below this amount. 
# A sponsor can choose to donate to the overall OWASP Projects budget. If the sponsor chooses to donate to the overall Projects budget, then one logo of their choosing will be placed on the OWASP Projects wiki page under the 'Sponsors' tab. The minimum amount required to have their company logo on the OWASP Project page is $1000 USD. 
# If a sponsor is donating funds to a speciﬁc project, then the logo must be placed in the 'Acknowledgements' tab under the 'Project Sponsors' heading using the new OWASP Projects wiki template. 
# Sponsor logos must NEVER be placed anywhere other than within the 'Acknowledgements' tab under the 'Project Sponsors' heading on the project wiki page. 
#Logos must be created using the following speciﬁcations for placement on the wiki page: 
##Resolution: 72dpi 
##File Type:.PNG or .JPEG 
##Size: No longer than 300 x 300 px 
# Sponsor logos on the product: All sponsor logos must be placed on a page/section/location that is separate from the content of the product. They must contain the company logo, their name, and their website url. The aim is to have a separate section on the product that clearly lists sponsor information. Template acknowledgement copy: “OWASP does not endorse vendors, but we would like to acknowledge the following contributions....” 
# Logos must be created using the following speciﬁcations for placement on the product: 
##Resolution: 300dpi 
##File Type: .EPS 
##Size: No smaller than 5in x 5in 
#All sponsorship logos will be placed on the project product and wiki page for one year or until the next major release. All legacy projects will be given one year to comply with these guidelines starting on January 01, 2014. 
#Logos must be sent to the OWASP Project Leader for inclusion on the OWASP Project wiki page and product. It is the responsibility of the Project Leader to make sure all of his/her project sponsors are properly represented on the OWASP Project wiki page and product. 
#All additional contributors get their name, email address, company name (if desired), and a link to one external website (no logo). No logos should be added for individuals who only contribute time, or for any other sort of contribution. 
# Project Sponsorship Rejection: A Project Leader can decide to accept sponsorships or not, but this must be across the board. In essence, a Project Leader must agree to accept all sponsors, or he/she must agree to deny all sponsorship support. However, if a Project Leader wants to reject a speciﬁc sponsor (not across the board) then an exception will have to be requested from the Board of Directors. 
# If a Project Leader fails to follow these guidelines, the OWASP Projects Manager will notify the Project Leader of the infringement. If the infringement continues, the Project Leader may face the removal of all Project Leader privileges until further notice.
