Project Leader Expectations
---------------------------

All OWASP Project Leaders are expected to act with integrity, openness,
and abide by the OWASP Core Values and OWASP Code of Ethics. All Project
Leaders should treat everyone within and outside the OWASP community
with respect, and this includes board members and employees. Leaders
should work towards collaborating in a professional manner with all
involved in the face of conﬂict. Please remember we are all here to make
the world a better place through software security by making it more
visible to the world. The majority of the OWASP community is made up of
volunteers, and we must all respect each other’s contributions and
opinions even if we disagree. Aside from the behavioral expectations
OWASP has of its Leader, there are a handful of operational OWASP
Project policies and guidelines that Leaders must abide by. You can ﬁnd
a brief summary of each, below.

### OWASP Project Spending Policy

The project spending policy is a series of guidelines aimed at assisting
OWASP Project Leaders with OWASP Project spending related questions.
Generally, it is perfectly ﬁne to spend project funds on things such as
stickers, swag, marketing or other support services. It becomes tricky
when looking at whether you can spend your project's funds on another
project though - technically, those are not a Project Leader’s personal
funds for his/her projects. A Project Leader is a steward for the funds
of the project that he/she is the leader of. If a Project Leader ﬁnds
that their project funds would be of better use in another project, then
we recommend those funds get donated back to the general project fund.
This way, anyone can request reimbursement for expenditures for other
projects from the general project budget. This shows a fairness toward
all projects and more transparency in the allocation of funds. In order
to avoid any problems or misunderstandings in the future, we have
developed the project spending guidelines. The aim is to provide clear
expectations of how OWASP Projects should spend project funds, and what
are appropriate project expenses. Please see Appendix 8.6 for a full
list of the guidelines.

[Project Spending
Policy](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Project_Spending_Policy)

### OWASP Grant Spending Policy

OWASP has grown considerably over the past few years, and this means
that our project inventory has grown as well. We currently manage over
100 open source projects under the OWASP brand umbrella. OWASP prides
itself on being able to spend resources in the pursuit of potential
grant funding opportunities for our projects. However, our recent
successful grant proposals have added several restrictions in the way we
can spend grant awarded funds as an organization. Any funds that come
into OWASP have an obligation to be spent in support of the mission.
Additionally, there are speciﬁc guidelines that the IRS has on
expenditures that fall into the category of grants. Grants are deﬁned as
any funds that OWASP gives (for travel or other items ) without
receiving anything in return. For example, when we pay for travel for
Project Leaders or community members to speak at our events, this is not
a grant because we are receiving a service in exchange for covering the
costs of travel. In contrast, if we pay for a Project Leader to attend
an AppSec conference where we are allowing one individual from the
industry to come to our event for free, and we cover the cost with no
expectation of performance or work, this is a grant. We need to then
show that we have criteria that were used to determine who received the
funding and the amount they received, in this case. In order to avoid
any problems or mis-understandings, we have developed a few guidelines
to provide clear expectations of how grant awarded funds are to be
managed and spent by all OWASP Projects. Please see Appendix 8.5 for a
full list of the guidelines.

### OWASP Project Sponsorship Operational Guidelines

The Project Sponsorship Operational Guidelines aim to inform project
sponsors of what they can expect if they donate funds, or other
resources, to an OWASP Project. Additionally, they outline what Project
Leaders can offer sponsors in exchange for donating funds to their OWASP
Project. In order to avoid future misunderstandings, we have developed
these guidelines to provide clear expectations of how sponsors and
projects are expected to interact when funds are given to a project for
product development. Please see Appendix 8.7 for the guidelines.
