OWASP Project Stage Benefits
----------------------------

The requirements laid out for the various stages of project maturity can
be arduous. As all Project Leaders are volunteers, OWASP recognizes the
need to offer incentives for both the Project Leader and the project
itself to help it move forward. The following section provides a list of
standard resources made available to Project Leaders based on their
project’s current maturity level.

### Starting a Project: Incubator Stage Benefits

Aside from leveraging the OWASP brand, we can offer a number of beneﬁts
to an OWASP Project Leader for starting a project. These include:
Financial Donation Management, Resource Procurement Support, Project
Review Support, WASPY Award Nominations Opportunities, OWASP Projects
Track Participation, Opportunity to use Project Fund Bucket for Project
Development, and Community Engagement and Promotional Opportunities.

**FINANCIAL DONATION MANAGEMENT** As part of the project home page
provided by the OWASP Projects Infrastructure, all projects can solicit
ﬁnancial donations. While these ﬁnancial resources are available to
Project Leaders, there are strict rules for what these funds can be used
for. In particular, these funds cannot be used to pay Project Leaders or
contributors for their time spent working on the project unless it is
pre-approved by the Foundation. These funds are meant to be used towards
project expenses. For a more information on our project spending policy,
please view Appendix 8.6.

**RESOURCE PROCUREMENT SUPPORT** Here at OWASP, we have an opportunity
to work with many contractors and experts from different industries and
ﬁelds. The OWASP Operations team are a hub of contacts, and we can help
ﬁnd resources for Project Leaders when needed. Simply contact the OWASP
Project Manager for assistance on leveraging the OWASP network.

**PROJECT REVIEW SUPPORT** OWASP recognizes that Project Leaders often
have difﬁculty objectively reviewing their own projects. The goal of a
project review is to enable Project Leaders to receive constructive,
objective feedback on how to improve their projects. OWASP can retain
the services of volunteer project reviewers from the OWASP community. As
our reviewer pool is made up of unpaid volunteer staff, we are only able
to review a project every 3 months. Please note, this service is still
under development for the coming year.

**WASPY AWARDS NOMINATION** Project Leaders have the opportunity to
participate in the annual WASPY Awards. WASPY Awards are given to those
projects that have provided outstanding contributions to the OWASP
Community and the Software Security Industry over the year. Any OWASP
project can be nominated to receive an award and have their name put
into the nominee pool.

**OWASP OPEN SOURCE SHOWCASE & OWASP PROJECTS TRACK PARTICIPATION** This
opportunity is open to all open source projects. All Project Leaders and
contributors are welcome to apply for the OWASP Open Source Showcase and
the OWASP Projects Track event modules. These event modules are managed
by the OWASP Project Manager, and they take place at our global AppSec
conferences every year.

**INTRA-OWASP PROMOTION** Additional promotional opportunities are
available via a number of our marketing channels, OWASP activities, and
even via other projects within OWASP. For example, the OWASP Web Testing
Environment (formerly the OWASP LiveCD), the Podcast series, the AppSec
Tutorial Series, and Media projects, all interact with other OWASP
Projects. These types of projects can provide cross-promotion
opportunities for other projects. Likewise, there are multiple teams
working on internationalization that support ongoing translation
efforts. These teams can provide translation services that will help
projects reach wider audiences. OWASP also holds and participates in
many industry and community events, including local chapter meetings,
regional events, and outreach activities. Projects can gain increased
exposure through OWASP presence at these events.

Note that while OWASP encourages Project Leaders, translation team
members, chapter leaders, conference planners, and outreach leaders to
consider promoting mature projects, the ﬁnal decision on who to promote
rests with those community members.

**OPPORTUNITY TO SUBMIT PROPOSAL FOR PROJECT DEVELOPMENT FUNDING** All
OWASP Projects will have an opportunity to submit a proposal for funds
that can be used for development of the project. There are restrictions
to the use of these funds. Stipends cannot be used to pay Project
Leaders or contributors for work done. Acceptable expenses include
travel, marketing, advertising, technology, and development expenses.
There is a set amount set aside from the Foundation for this award this
year, and there is a proposal submission requirement before any Leader
can be awarded these funds. Please note, that Flagship and Lab projects
will get a preference for funding, and funds will be awarded based on an
appropriate justiﬁcation need, and on a ﬁrst come, ﬁrst serve basis.

**COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND PROMOTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES** Last but not
least, Project Leaders get ﬁrst hand access to industry experts, and a
wealth of knowledge and support from over 32,000 global OWASP members
and supporters.

### Benefits of Graduating: OWASP Lab Stage

A Lab Project will continue to receive the same beneﬁts that OWASP
Incubator projects receive (please see above), along with the additional
beneﬁts outlined below:

**PROJECT PROMOTION SUPPORT** OWASP recognizes that Project Leaders want
to obtain visibility for their endeavors, and there are a number of ways
that can be achieved through our Global Projects Infrastructure. As an
OWASP Lab Project, Leaders get preference for promotional opportunities
over Incubator Project Leaders. Projects can expect to be highlighted or
“featured” for several reasons, including but not limited to:

-   New project inception
-   Recent project graduation
-   Recent release
-   High levels of contributor activity
-   Strong positive feedback responses
-   Press Coverage

If selected, projects will be highlighted through the Global Projects
Portal and our social networking infrastructure as these are the primary
methods we use to promote the visibility of OWASP Projects.
Additionally, there is opportunity to be highlighted in our OWASP
Connector Newsletter that is sent to over 43,000 subscribers.

**RESOURCE PROCUREMENT SUPPORT** The OWASP Project Manager will give
preference to Lab Project Leaders over Incubator Project Leaders when
there is a need for resource procurement support. Simply contact the
OWASP Project Manager for assistance on leveraging the OWASP network.
Please note, the Project Leader must be aware that all resource costs
will need to come out of their individual project budget. Please ensure
that your project has enough funds before spending funds or hiring a
resource.

**OWASP OPEN SOURCE SHOWCASE & OWASP PROJECTS TRACK TRAVEL FUNDING
ASSISTANCE** All Project Leaders and contributors are encouraged to
apply for the OWASP Open Source Showcase and the OWASP Projects Track
event modules. These event modules are managed by the OWASP Project
Manager, and they take place at our global AppSec conferences. OWASP
travel funding is available to those Project Leaders that are in need of
assistance. Preference is given to Project Leaders that are traveling
from the region closest the the AppSec event in question, and preference
is also given to Project Leaders that have not participated in the Open
Source Showcase and/or Projects Track modules. Preference is also given
to Lab Project Leaders over Incubator Project Leaders.

**OPPORTUNITY TO SUBMIT PROPOSAL FOR PROJECT DEVELOPMENT FUNDING** All
OWASP Projects will have an opportunity to submit a proposal for funds
that can be used for development of the project. There are restrictions
to the use of these funds. Stipends cannot be used to pay Project
Leaders or contributors for work done. Acceptable expenses include
travel, marketing, advertising, technology, and development expenses.
There is a set amount set aside from the Foundation for this award this
year, and there is a proposal submission requirement before you can be
awarded these funds. Please note, Lab Projects will be given extra
consideration over Incubator Projects due to increased level of
commitment. Funds will be awarded based on an appropriate justiﬁcation
need, and on a ﬁrst come, ﬁrst serve basis.

### Benefits of Graduating: OWASP Flagship Stage

A Flagship project will continue to receive the same beneﬁts that OWASP
Lab Projects receive (please see above), along with the additional
beneﬁts outlined below:

**GRANT FINDING AND PROPOSAL WRITING** OWASP will assist Flagship
Projects with ﬁnding and developing grant proposals to help fund their
product development. Projects must have an active Project Leader willing
to take responsibility for helping complete the proposal. Additionally,
the Project Leader must be willing to take the lead on delivering the
project outlined in the proposal if we are successful in securing grant
funding. All projects have an opportunity to seek out and submit grant
proposals; however, Flagship Projects will get preference due to our
limited resources.

**PROJECT PROMOTION SUPPORT** As an OWASP Flagship Project, Leaders get
preference for promotional opportunities over Incubator and Lab Project
Leaders. If selected, projects will be highlighted through the Global
Projects Portal and our social networking infrastructure as these are
the primary methods we use to promote the visibility of OWASP Projects.
Additionally, there is opportunity to be highlighted in our OWASP
Connector Newsletter that is sent to over 43,000 subscribers.

**OPPORTUNITY TO SUBMIT PROPOSAL FOR PROJECT DEVELOPMENT FUNDING** All
OWASP Projects will have an opportunity to submit a proposal for funds
that can be used for development of the project. There are restrictions
to the use of these funds. Stipends cannot be used to pay Project
Leaders or contributors for work done. Acceptable expenses include
travel, marketing, advertising, technology, and development expenses.
There is a set amount set aside from the Foundation for this award this
year, and there is a proposal submission requirement before you can be
awarded these funds. Please note, Flagship Projects will be given extra
consideration over Incubator and Labs projects due to their increased
level of commitment. Funds will be awarded based on an appropriate
justiﬁcation need, and on a ﬁrst come, ﬁrst serve basis.
