OWASP Project Lifecyle
----------------------

Projects, along with Global Conferences and Local Chapters, are the
cornerstone of the OWASP organization. We want to provide a fostering
environment for new ideas and energetic Project Leaders; however, our
global consumers depend on OWASP to provide dependable, quality
projects. The OWASP Project Lifecycle represents a balance between
keeping a very loose structure around OWASP Projects, and ensuring that
OWASP consumers are not confused about a project’s maturity and quality.
Our lifecycle stages allow consumers to easily identify mature projects,
and projects that are proofs of concept, experimental, and classiﬁed as
prototypes in their current state. The greater the maturity of the
project, the greater the level of responsibility for the Project Leader.
These responsibilities are not trivial as OWASP provides incentives and
beneﬁts for projects who take on these added responsibilities. Each of
these stages is described in greater detail in the sections that follow.
The OWASP Project Lifecycle is broken down into the following stages:

![](Owasp-incubator-trans-200.png "fig:Owasp-incubator-trans-200.png"){width="50"}
**OWASP Incubator Project Stage**

![](Owasp-labs-trans-85.png "fig:Owasp-labs-trans-85.png"){width="50"}
**OWASP Lab Project Stage**

![](Owasp-flagship-trans-85.png "fig:Owasp-flagship-trans-85.png"){width="50"}
**OWASP Flagship Project Stage**

### Incubator Projects

OWASP Incubator Projects represent the experimental playground where
projects are still being designed, ideas are still being proven, and
development is still underway. The “OWASP Incubator” label allows OWASP
consumers to readily identify a project’s maturity. The label gives
Project Leaders the opportunity to leverage the OWASP brand name and
resources while their project is still maturing. OWASP Incubator
projects are given a place on the OWASP Projects Portal to leverage the
organization's infrastructure, and establish their presence and project
history.

#### Incubator Project Deliverables

Leaders of Incubator Projects are expected to produce a draft or
development release as a downloadable ﬁle on the project page within
twelve (12) months of project inception. As previously mentioned, OWASP
believes in pursuing ideas in a fail-fast manner. In order to avoid an
excess of stagnant projects that never mature, projects will not be
permitted to linger in an undeveloped state beyond this time period. If
a project has not produced at least a draft or development release, the
project will be removed from the OWASP Projects Portal. If a Project
Leader subsequently produces a completed release and wishes to
re-associate with OWASP Projects, then that project can be returned to
the OWASP Projects Portal as an Incubator Project. Once a Project Leader
has completed at least one version of a concrete deliverable, the
project is eligible for graduation into the OWASP Lab stage. Note that
graduation to the OWASP Lab stage is optional, and a Project Leader that
has completed at least one concrete deliverable may continue in the
OWASP Incubator stage.

### Lab Projects

OWASP Lab Projects represent projects that have produced a deliverable
of signiﬁcant value. Leaders of OWASP Lab projects are expected to stand
behind the quality of their project as these projects should have
matured to the point where they are accepted by a signiﬁcant portion of
the OWASP community. While these projects are typically not production
ready, the OWASP community expects that an OWASP Lab Project Leader is
producing deliverables that are ready for mainstream usage. OWASP Lab
Projects are meant to be a collection of established projects that have
gained community support and acclaim by undergoing the project review
process. These reviews are part of the Incubator Graduation Process that
is required to enter the OWASP Lab stage. To enter OWASP Lab, projects
must be actively maintained, they must meet the OWASP Lab project
standards, and they must seek to provide value to OWASP consumers. While
projects that graduate to the OWASP Lab stage can remain there
indeﬁnitely, project activity is a prominently featured piece of
metadata on the Projects Portal. As a result, Projects without six
months of project activity will be automatically tagged as inactive.
Project Leaders are encouraged to maintain the level of excellence
attributed to an OWASP Lab Project.

### Flagship Projects

! The primary goal of the OWASP Flagship Project stage is to identify,
highlight, and support mainstream OWASP Projects that make up a complete
software security solution. Selection of Flagship Projects is driven by
the OWASP Community, and eligible projects are selected from the OWASP
Lab Project pool by the Technical Project Advisory Group. This selection
process generally ensures that there is only one project of each type
covering any particular security space. These projects are selected for
their superior maturity, established quality, and strategic value to
OWASP and software security as a whole. OWASP Flagship Projects
represent projects that are not only mature, but are also projects that
OWASP as an organization provides direct support to maintaining. The
core mission of OWASP is to make application security visible and so as
an organization, OWASP has a vested interest in the success of its
Flagship Projects. Since Flagship Projects have such high visibility,
these projects are expected to uphold the most stringent requirements of
all OWASP Projects.

Selection for OWASP Flagship designation is by invitation only. A Lab
Project Leader can present their case for why they think their project
deserves Flagship status. However, there is no deterministic process to
be designated a Flagship Project. There are no steps to be followed that
guarantee Flagship status. This status is reserved for the strategic use
of OWASP to identify a platform that supports the OWASP mission to
improve the state of software security.
